[DOCS] Add information about proxyd (#857)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/stack/operators/features/proxyd.mdx

---
title: proxyd
lang: en-US
description: Learn about the proxyd service and how to configure it for use in the OP Stack.
---

# proxyd

`proxyd` is a critical RPC request router and proxy used within the OP Stack infrastructure. It enables operators to efficiently route and manage RPC requests across multiple backend services, ensuring performance, fault tolerance, and security.

## Key Features

> 
> *   **RPC Method Whitelisting**: Define a list of allowed RPC methods to ensure only authorized requests are processed.
> *   **Backend Request Routing**: Routes RPC methods to specific backend service groups.
> *   **Automatic Retries**: Automatically retries failed backend requests, improving reliability.
> *   **Consensus Tracking**: Monitors backend consensus states, such as latest, safe, and finalized blocks, to ensure consistent responses.
> *   **Request/Response Rewriting**: Enforces consensus by rewriting requests and responses to match the resolved consensus state.
> *   **Load Balancing**: Distributes traffic evenly across backend services to optimize performance and prevent bottlenecks.
> *   **Caching**: Caches immutable responses from backends to reduce redundant processing.
> *   **Metrics**: Provides metrics for tracking request latency, error rates, and backend health.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   RPC method whitelisting
*   Backend request routing
*   Automatic retries for failed backend requests
*   Consensus tracking (latest, safe, and finalized blocks)
*   Request/response rewriting to enforce consensus
*   Load balancing across backend services
*   Caching of immutable responses
*   Metrics for request latency, error rates, and backend health
```

I'll rather remove redundant information and focused on essential content.

RPC Method Whitelisting == "Define a list of allowed RPC methods to ensure only authorized requests are processed."

## Usage

To start using `proxyd`, follow these steps:

1.  **Build the Binary**:
    ```bash
    make proxyd  
    ```

This will build the proxyd binary. No additional dependencies are required.

2.  Configure `proxyd`: Create a configuration file to define your proxy backends and routing rules. Refer to [example.config.toml](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/infra/blob/main/proxyd/example.config.toml) for a full list of options with commentary.

3.  Start the Service: Once the configuration file is ready, start the proxyd service using:

```
proxyd <path-to-config>.toml
```

## Consensus Awareness

Starting with version 4.0.0, `proxyd` includes consensus awareness to minimize chain reorganizations for clients. By setting `consensus_aware` to true in the configuration, `proxyd` will:

> 

Reviewer: @richardgreg this works?

*   Poll backends for consensus data (latest block, safe block, peer count, etc.).

> *   Resolve a consensus group based on the healthiest backends.

Reviewer: @richardgreg this?

> *   Enforce consensus state across client requests.

Reviewer: @richardgreg this?
